1. ascendancy branch. this one is designed to mirror the canonical sequel but adapted to smoothly transition from my alternate timeline for episodes I-VI. the simple summary is: a new authoritarian regime called the Ascendancy gradually took over the galaxy, but never completely. the Union produced an elite force, the Guardians, assembled largely from past rebel members, to fight against it. turns out the Ascendancy is led by a duo of dark force users Kharon and Nyra, one of which was a fallen jedi who previously trained under luke's new academy (Nyra). meanwhile, palpatine's grandson Tarin was a scavanger on a distant planet, when he was found by a jedi and brought to luke for training. tarin did not know his lineage. the millenium falcon on one of the guardian missions was intercepted and boarded by Nyra and Kharon, who defeated most on board. leia, who discovered she was force sensitive recently, tried to fight back, but the dark side fighters were stronger. 6 year old ben solo, onboard the falcon, lit up his toy lightsaber, which was harmless until luke sensed they were in danger and used a massive force projection to turn ben's harmless toy saber into a real weapon, forcing kharon and nyra back. however, this force projection caused luke to permanently lose all connection with the force. eventually tarin completed his jedi training and seeked out kharon and nyra. kharon revealed that he is sidious' son and that tarin is in turn HIS son, clarifying the lineage. he invited tarin to join them, but he refused. the experience of witnessing a jedi resist the dark side despite a lineage connection to them made nyra redeem herself as a jedi and kill kharon. however, sidious then mysteriously appeared as an unstable body, called nyra a traitor, and promptly killed her. then went after tarin, who fled. he ran until he caught up with ben solo, now much older and himself experienced in the jedi ways. luke refused to train ben as he considers their family relationship too closely attached, so one of his former students penny trained ben instead. anyway in a final confrontation, sidious attempted to use tarin's biological body to restore his own form, but ben blocked him from doing so by standing between them. eventually tarin and ben together as a duo defeated sidious for good.

2. PGP & crux branch. a more organic sequel to where the new episode VI + epilogue left off, rather than trying to follow canon sequel structure. basically the summary is: padme keeps sending han on missions to stop smugglers and stuff and he is getting really effective. so the underworld adapts. groups of smugglers, mercenaries, pirates, and rogue bounty hunters united into the Para-Galactic Pirates (PGP) and deliberately sought to weaken han and the skywalker family at large. a few battles occurred, but when luke's forces finally got ahead and got a chance to board the PGP's flagship, they discovered it was full of dead bodies and red lightsabers. turns out, the PGP flagship got hijacked by a new group of dark force users called the Crux, headed by Cruximus (non-human and cannot speak galactic basic, from a species called finnoden). cruximus stumbled across some abandoned sith knowledge archives and got curious and learned the dark force ways from there, but heavily adapted their tradition and rejected their orthodoxy, creating the crux. the crux has one master (cruximus) and a huge number of "disciples" (trainees). however, eventually luke and the jedi found out that by rejecting sith orthodoxy, the crux were extremely susceptible to "falling to the light side" through compassion, kindness, and friendship. many crux disciples converted to the light side after being offered a hand, some food, or even just a pat on the back. finally, leia suggested targeting cruximus directly. they used a childhood crush of cruximus (Dagona), who came and made a romance gesture at cruximus, which alone completely broke him. as a final vow to compassion, the jedi let cruximus leave in peace with dagona and didn't pursue him further. the crux were disbanded, most remaining disciples converted to the jedi, and the crisis was averted. luke then realized how easy it is to go from light to dark and dark to light sides of the force, and spent the rest of his life researching properties of the force itself, eventually coming up with the unified theory of the force, succinctly summarized by a single equation: F = SE (force intensity = force sensitivity * emotional index), where the sign of the emotional index directly determines the sign of the force (light vs. dark).

3. arguments branch. this isn't directly a sequel to the new I-VI but rather took place within the events of the new IV-VI. essentially it involves a series of arguments between anakin and padme, getting to the root of his issues regarding fear and possessiveness, and an inability to accept loss or even the possibility of loss. over many years, padme helped anakin dissect his own mentality, emotional capacity, and moral foundation, and rebuild as a truly better person rather than one that "found the easy way out" (which means just doing whatever padme wants him to do as the right choice instead of thinking himself about what's right vs. wrong, or as padme puts it "outsourcing his conscience"). they also confront the exact circumstances that led anakin to fall from the light side in the first place, and discuss in detail the assumptions that anakin had been making and whether they were rational (spoiler alert: they weren't rational at all).

4. anakin's conversations & ben's journey branch. in this one, it's very introspective. anakin found that even though he lost combat use of the force, he is still force sensitive so he cultivated using the force in other ways, eventually culminating in finding stronger ways to connect with past jedi force spirits. then he compiled a long list of all jedi that were killed or harmed by him during his period of time when he fell to the dark side, and personally connected to each of their force spirits and apologized to each and every one of them. later, it segued into other people in the palace finding out what anakin had been doing all along and some of them wanted to talk to past jedi too. the young ben solo (also 6 years old in this branch) talke to many jedi that he learned about from reading picture books, including his "personal heroes" like yoda, obi-wan, and mace windu. eventually ben started reading about anakin himself during the clone wars, then his fall, then the rebel era stuff, then the aftermath, and he asked deeply receptive and sometimes difficult questions to his family as he read through what they had been doing prior to his birth (including questions like "the book said jedi cannot marry. then why are you married, grandpa?" directed at anakin). eventually, ben declared he wants to become a jedi, and luke agrees to take him to dagobah to train as a jedi someday, but not right away. however, then, after questioning all his family members about their life, ben realized he has a powerful weapon (or loophole): the droids. you see, the droids don't really know what's "kid-appropriate" and so will answer literally ANYTHING ben asks it. including questions that the adults refused to answer him. so he starts talking to the droids all day. eventually ben discovers that r2 can holographically project 3D archived footage of historical events and memories, and is actually literally a rolling memory cache. so ben starts watching high-fidelity video footage of historical events, projected proudly by r2. at this point, this branch itself branched off into several subbranches:
- 4a. romance & family: in this subbranch, ben became fascinated by footage r2 has archived around anakin and padme's early relationship, including anakin's attempts to flirt with her, his hopelessly poetic attempts to win her over, the "i don't like sand" fiasco, and the secret wedding event itself. after watching each one, he would bring up questions and comments at the dinner table, endlessly embarrassing anakin and padme in front of the whole family. later, he pivots to learning about the childhood of his family members, and their own origins, including extended family. this eventually leads to ben personally meeting some more distant relatives, including owen and beru lars on tatooine, and padme's extended family on naboo. however, han no matter what refuses 100% to divulge any info about his family background or even anything about his past self, leading to ben secretly extracting info from chewbacca, translated by threepio. after hearing too many exciting smuggling stories, ben temporarily develops a fascination with han's past criminal life and the underworld, until padme notices this tendency and firmly shuts it down.
- 4b. planetary exploration: in this subbranch, ben is more interested in footage of historical events, both during the republican / clone wars years, and during the empire years. after watching all those dramatic recorded historical events unfold, he wants to visit a lot of the planets in person. eventually, ben visits (in this order, after his homeworld naboo): coruscant, geonosis, endor, dagobah, mustafar, tatooine, bespin (cloud city), alderaan, kamino, kashyyyk, and ilum. during this process, a major incident occurred on the tatooine trip, where ben, anakin, and padme almost got killed by tusken raiders seeking revenge for what anakin had done to them many years ago.
- 4c. island & tatooine: in this subbranch, as in 4a, ben watched the "i don't like sand" scene, but became fascinated by the island, beach, and glass-making old man that padme mentioned in that scene. eventually, he begs padme and anakin to personally take him to the island, where over the course of a week he learned to turn sand into glass by striking the sand with a lightsaber, craft simple crude objects from the glass with patience, and appreciate the inner beauty of glass itself by staring thoughtfully into it. he also finds that the old man has long died, which anakin and padme already knew as that man was already elderly when padme was a child, but ben refused to believe until he had personal proof of it. after the trip, han teased anakin by asking him why he voluntarily spent an entire week at the beach if he "doesn't like sand", which led to anakin revealing that he feels differently for naboo sand vs. tatooine sand, but even for tatooine he still feels conflicted (not outright hate). he revealed he still visits owen and beru lars sometimes, and also misses podracing. this leads to ben coming with anakin and padme on a trip to tatooine, where he talked with the lars, learned about moisture farming, and watched a podrace. but then he got interested in the hutts and begged to meet one, but anakin and padme drew a hard line this time and eventually had to practically drag him away and onto the shuttle so he doesn't get any ideas.

5. arm restore branch. this one focuses on a pre-divergence plot event which happened in the canonical episode II, where the confrontation with dooku severed one of anakin's arms. post-empire and with not much to do, anakin embarks on a journey with R2-D2 and C-3PO to find ways to restore his biological arm. at first they sifted through abandoned medical facilities, but not much progress was made. they anakin remembered the exact circumstances around the fateful encounter, and decided to use the force instead. they traveled to a primitive world with ancient force healers that predate even the jedi tradition, and painfully and slowly, through their help, anakin was able to restore his biological arm, upon which he returned to naboo with the droids.

6. planet restoration & planet parks branch. in this branch, padme and anakin reflect on the many planets exploited, destroyed, or devastated by the empire, especially geonosis and kamino. they direct help understand the pains of the surviving kaminoans and geonosians, and help them rebuild their planets according to their visions. afterwards, anakin announces that he misses tatooine sometimes, and they proceed to build an attraction on naboo simulating the environment and lifestyle of tatooine, complete with an operational podracing track, mos espa style markets, and demo moisture farms. they called this attraction nabooine. later, they also made nabino (kamino), nastafar (mustafar), naspin (bespin), nabruscant (coruscant), and nablum (ilum). it culminated in ben's 7th birthday, where the whole family went and spent a whole day at these attractions, playing and learning through all 6 of them in one long, exhausting day.

7. end slavery branch. this branch directly attacks the decentralized nature of the union. basically, anakin explains his childhood as a slave, and padme is horrified and wants slavery banned. but now as each planet rules itself, the union has no way of telling any individual planet to abolish slavery. especially not tatooine, which is controlled by the hutts, who benefit from keeping the slavery structure intact. eventually after a very lengthy political debate in the galactic council, a charter of sentient rights was adopted, setting some baseline standards across the galaxy like no slavery, no trafficking sentient beings, and no genocide. any planets that don't follow these will be sanctioned, their access to hyperspace lanes cut off, and travel bans imposed. tatooine, after economic pressure, folded because the hutts realized that the money lost by being sanctioned and cut off by the rest of the union is far more than the money lost by abolishing slavery. so they agreed to the charter for economic reasons in the end, essentially. other slave planets followed suit. except one - zygerria. that one stuck to slavery on principle regardless of how much economic or other losses they were taking. eventually they just became anti-union in general because they see the union as illegitimately imposing the charter on them. they publicly declared that they will never listen to any other laws from the union anymore. the union, sensing danger and noticing that zygerria is rapidly militarizing itself, held a vote in the galactic council, with 92% in favour of authorizing military force to deal with them. after this, the jedi were called to help, so was the millenium falcon. luke took 12 jedi students on starfighters, and han took the remainder of the skywalker family (including chewie and the droids) onboard the millenium falcon, and they went to war with zygerria. unfortunately for them, they were extremely outmatched by the heavily fortified, well prepared, and determined zygerrian defense forces. after nearly losing to their defensive forces outright, the galactic council was forced to reckon with how much the union's military has deteriorated under years of no active combat experience and no active attempts at maintenance. with 77% support from the council, an immediate plan was introduced to massively increase production of weapons, aircraft, and recruit for guard troopers (what stormtroopers got renamed to after the empire). they picked former rebel alliance members as leaders for the newly recruited troops, because the rebels had extensive active combat experience under their belt already. eventually lando arrived with a fleet of starfighters to reinforce luke and his jedi and the millenium falcon. another reinforcement arrived later with massive transport vessels for guard troopers, escorted by starfighters surrounding and protecting them. only then did they break through the orbital defenses and finally touched down on the surface of zygerria. the jedi used form III to protect the guard troopers as they advanced. eventually after some intel breakthrough on lando's side, and difficult fighting, they finally reached the central leadership of zygerria, but the last barrier was 100 extremely elite melee combatants called the mythic defenders, fiercely loyal to zygerria and its cause (domination of the strong over the weak as justification for slavery). luke tried really hard to break through, but to no avail. eventually he had to switch to form VII to create an opening, taking a big risk in the process by doing so. however, this succeeded, and around the same time the orbital fleet (lando's starfighters + millenium falcon) finally destroyed their last anti-air cannons and gained firm air superiority. combined pressure from the jedi, the guard troopers, and the air support from above defeated the remaining mythic defenders, leading to the surrender of zygerria and after a long time stabilization of the planet and abolition of slavery there.